Update contribution guide with the new configuration scheme (#885)
discord-python/site: pydis_site/apps/content/resources/guides/pydis-guides/contributing/bot.md

It's possible to set the bot to use a single channel for all cogs, but that will cause extreme spam and will be difficult to work with.

You can start your own server and set up channels as you see fit, but for your convenience we have a template for a development server you can use: [https://discord.new/zmHtscpYN9E3](https://discord.new/zmHtscpYN9E3).

> Keep in mind that this is not an exact mirror of the Python server, but a reduced version for testing purposes.

Reviewer: This change eliminates the information that would answer the question "what was reduced?"

Perhaps something like "Keep in mind this is not an exact replica of the real server; for simplicity, some groups of channels from the real server are represented by only one."

Author: I'm not too sure about that either, because If I understood right, we'll be revamping the test server as well so that it reflects the necessary channels for the bot to work.
AFAIK, we've only condensed the test server channels to avoid the config hell that we used to go through, which will soon change.

What I meant by "this is not an exact mirror" is the fact that not ALL channels from prod are here since they're not needed for the bot to work, but maybe we should work on that rewording, WDYT ?

Reviewer 2: > The channels there are mostly the ones needed by the bot.

Reviewer 2: I meant as an addition to what was already there, should've been clearer.

---

### Configure the Bot
You now have both the bot's code and a server to run it on. It's time for you to connect the two by changing the bot's configurations.
This can be done either automatically or manually, and we'll be detailing the steps for both.

One thing to know is that the bot relies on precisely **two** configuration files to work

#### .env.server
All server configuration values are saved in this file, which needs to be at the root directory of the cloned code.
This file contains the various configurations we use to make the bot run on the Python Discord server, such as channel and role IDs, and the emojis it works with.
It also contains configurations such as how long it takes for a help channel to time out, and how many messages a user needs to voice-verify.

This file will be created for you automatically if you decide to go with [automatic configuration](#automatic-configuration),
otherwise a lot of it has to be done by hand which will be detailed in the [manual configuration](#manual-configuration) section.

#### .env
This file will mostly contain sensitive information such as your `BOT_TOKEN` and your `REDIS_PASSWORD`.

> It will also contain configurations related to external services the bot might use such as `USE_METRICITY`, which are unrelated your server, with the only exception being `GUILD_ID`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It will also contain configurations related to external services the bot might use such as `USE_METRICITY`, which are unrelated to your server, with the only exception being `GUILD_ID`.
```
This one's on me.

> This file will mostly contain sensitive information such as your `BOT_TOKEN` and your `REDIS_PASSWORD`, and other configurations related to external services that the bot might use,
> such as: `USE_METRICITY`, etc. which are all not necessarily coupled to things that can be fetched from your server, with the only exception to `GUILD_ID`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This file will contain sensitive information such as your `BOT_TOKEN` and your `REDIS_PASSWORD`.
It will also contain configurations related to external services the bot might use such as `USE_METRICITY`, which are unrelated your server, with the only exception being `GUILD_ID`.
```

**Notes**:
* Both `.env` and `.env.server` are and should remain ignored by git, otherwise you risk pushing sensitive information.

> * Skip the following step if you would like to configure the bot manually, but that will require more work.

Reviewer 2: These don't appear as bulleted points, I think you need another newline before them

Author: Strange, it rendered just fine for me on Pycharm, that's why i didn't catch it
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/48383734/224564188-8c2d4f5d-4ec1-4b73-9bb9-339ddeec5783.png)

Author: fixed in 2ce0b6936e93271e1de7f772686fb5adff7bb770

In our example, this will imply that pydantic will look for both `channels_announcements` and `channels_changelog` in the `.env.server` file.

As you can see here, only `channels_announcements` has been defined in the `.env.server` file since it's the only one needed, which will tell `pydantic`
to use the value **1077875228002234398** for the `announcements` attribute instead of the default **1079790565794779156**, and use the default value for the `changelog` attribute

```python
>>> Channels.announcements
1077875228002234398
>>> Channels.changelong
1077877318564991006
```

See [here](../obtaining-discord-ids) for help with obtaining Discord IDs.

If you wish to set all values in your `env.server` for your testing server, you need to set **all** the ones prefixed with:

* `guild_`
* `categories_`
* `channels_`
* `roles_`
* `webhooks_`
* `emojis_`

Additionally:

* At this stage, set `redis_use_fakeredis` to `true`. If you're looking for instructions for working with Redis, see [Working with Redis](#optional-working-with-redis).

> * Set `urls_site_schema` and `urls_site_api_schema` to `"http://"`.

Reviewer 2: This part is unrelated to the configuration method, since it's not set automatically by botstrap. We could set these values automatically if there's no existing config, or move this part to an area common to both methods.

Reviewer 3: The default values of https for urls_site_schema and HTTP for urls_site_api_schema are set properly for dev configurations.

Reviewer 2: Are you sure it doesn't need to be HTTP? it's information from the existing guide (which I didn't edit in the rewrite). If they don't need to be changed, then we can remove mentions of them from the guide altogether, and only move the mention of fakeredis.

Reviewer 3: It only needs to be HTTP if you're using a local site for `urls_site`, which I didn't realize this article was suggesting as well. I think it's more useful for most users to use the prod domain, since the site URL is only used for log viewing and paste. Log viewing is only sent in mod-log, while the pastebin is used in a few locations.

Reviewer 2: This is still relevant. The instruction about fakeredis can be moved under
https://github.com/python-discord/site/blob/4eedb972d4712082b9a2e381ea728a4fd59ed445/pydis_site/apps/content/resources/guides/pydis-guides/contributing/bot.md?plain=1#L217

### Configure the Bot
You now have both the bot's code and a server to run it on. It's time you to connect the two by changing the bot's configurations.
This can be done either automatically or manually, and we'll be detailing the steps for both.

#### Automatic configuration
To make setup much easier, there is a file called `bootstrap_config.py` that represents a script to bootstrap the configuration for you and help you get started immediately

> without having to spend much time copying ids from your newly created server into your configuration file.

Reviewer: This invalidates all the time I spent two weeks ago doing exactly that, and I refuse to accept that other people might get a QoL improvement when it's too late for me to benefit from it. /s

Author: It pains me that we all had to go through that before as well and I share your pain :')

**Note**: This phase can be skipped and done manually, but would require extra manual work.

##### 1. Script setup
##### 1.1. Environment variables
You will need to create a file called `.env` which will contain two required values for the script to work: `BOT.TOKEN` and `GUILD.ID`

Inside, add the following two lines:

```text
BOT.TOKEN=YourDiscordBotTokenHere
GUILD.ID=YourDiscordTestServerIdHere
```
See [here](../creating-bot-account) for help with obtaining the bot token and [here](../obtaining-discord-ids#guild-id) for help with obtaining the guild's id

> **Note**: The `.env` file will be ignored by commits.

Reviewer: It's not commits that are ignoring the env file--it's git. Perhaps this can be changed to "Git will ignore the `.env` file", or "Git will ignore the `.env` file, and you shouldn't try to track changes to it anyway."

Author: Either that or we say that they will be ignored **in**  commits.
But I'd say let's go with what you proposed since it's all done by git

How about this ? bfa955417ae582a797c31dd462bb0279fb67c64e

##### 1.2 Setting up the script environment

> The bootstrapping script is Python code like any other. To run it locally, you will need the right version of Python with the necessary packages installed:

Reviewer: I would prefer "The bootstrapping script is a Python program, so you will need a compatible Python version with these packages installed:"

Author: Done here 30033da4c74df1ae47e30f4a63eef7085b06712f
Let me know if you still want to reword that

python3 -m bootstrap_config
```

Once the script has finished running, you'll notice the creation of a new file called [`.env.server`](#envserver) at your project's root directory.
This file will contain the extracted ids from your newly created server which are necessary for your bot to run.

**Congratulations**, you have finished the configuration & can now start [running your bot](#run-it)

#### Manual configuration
##### .env.server
All server configuration values are saved in a file called `.env.server`, which needs to be at the root directory of the cloned code.
This file contains the various configurations we use to make the bot run on the Python Discord server, such as channel and role IDs, and the emojis it works with.
It also contains configurations such as how long it takes for a help channel to time out, and how many messages a user needs to voice-verify.

If you decided to use the bootstrapping script, you'll find that this file has already been created (which we recommend),
otherwise you'll need to create it manually.

To run the bot in your test server, you will **only** need to add the **necessary** configuration values for the channels/roles/categories, etc.

> that you'll be using for testing

Reviewer: "If you decide to set the configuration values manually, you will only need to set the values for the channels, roles, categories, etc. that are used by the component you are developing."

Author: Sweet, i dragged & dropped that here fefe1e7b80ee6d8f162695d47260d818a414e034

Let's take an example where we suppose we'll only be testing a feature that needs the `announcements` channel.

`constants.py`

```py

class EnvConfig:
    # Defines from where & how Pydantic will be looking for env variables
    ...

class _Channels(EnvConfig):

    EnvConfig.Config.env_prefix = "channels."

    announcements = 123

>     changelog = 456

Reviewer: Are these mock channel IDs? If so, I think they should be 19 digits, so they look like real IDs.

Author: C'est bon ! 1c23a1715496332a25f2548e208e4e09c31d8be9

# Instantiate the class & load the configuration
Channels = _Channels()
```

`.env.server` file

```text
channels.announcements=789
```

When you launch your bot, `pydantic` will load up the server constants from the `.env.server` file if they exist.

Each constants class will define its own prefix, which will make `pydantic` look for variables that will look like `{{env_prefix}}{{attribute_name}}` in the environment files

In our example, this will imply that pydantic will look for both `channels.announcements` and `channels.changelog` in the `.env.server` file.

As you can see here, only `channels.announcements` has been defined in the `.env.server` file since it's the only one needed, which will tell `pydantic`

> to use the value **789** for the `announcements` attribute instead of the default **456**, and use the default value for the `changelog` attribute

Reviewer: This is fine, but I'm not sure that this explanation is necessary.

Author: I struggled a bit with myself here to whether I should add it or not.
The purpose was to reduce confusion & to explain the different scenarios that can happen when Pydantic is picking up values.

What do you say to having a brief explanation in its own markdown file & page ?

> to use the value **789** for the `announcements` attribute instead of the default **456**, and use the default value for the `changelog` attribute

Reviewer: This is fine, but I'm not sure that this explanation is necessary.

### Configure the Bot

> You now have both the bot's code and a server to run it on. It's time you to connect the two by changing the bot's configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You now have both the bot's code and a server to run it on. It's time for you to connect the two by changing the bot's configurations.
```
This one's on me, but we might as well fix it here :)

This can be done either automatically or manually, and we'll be detailing the steps for both.

#### Automatic configuration

> To make setup much easier, there is a file called `botstrap.py` that represents a script to bootstrap the configuration for you and help you get started immediately

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make setup much easier, the script in `botstrap.py` bootstraps the configuration for you and helps you get started immediately,
```

> without having to spend much time copying ids from your newly created server into your configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
without having to spend much time copying IDs from your newly created server into your configuration file.
```
I also have an issue with "newly created", since this should still work for existing servers.

> **Note**: This phase can be skipped and done manually, but would require extra manual work.

Reviewer 2: This sounds a bit like "if you plant a flower, a flower will be planted" 😄 

```suggestion
**Note**: Skip this step if you would like to configure the bot manually, but that will require more work.
```

##### 1. Script setup
##### 1.1. Environment variables

> You will need to create a file called `.env` which will contain two required values for the script to work: `BOT_TOKEN` and `GUILD_ID`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will need to create a file called `.env`, which will contain two required values: `BOT_TOKEN` and `GUILD_ID`.
```
Things not working without them is implied by saying they're required.

Inside, add the following two lines:

```text
BOT_TOKEN=YourDiscordBotTokenHere
GUILD_ID=YourDiscordTestServerIdHere
```

> See [here](../creating-bot-account) for help with obtaining the bot token and [here](../obtaining-discord-ids#guild-id) for help with obtaining the guild's id

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [here](../creating-bot-account) for help with obtaining the bot token, and [here](../obtaining-discord-ids#guild-id) for help with obtaining the guild's ID.
```

**Note**: The `.env` is and should remain ignored by git, otherwise you risk pushing sensitive information.
##### 1.2 Setting up the script environment
The bootstrapping script is a Python program so you will need a compatible Python version and the necessary dependencies installed,
which are all detailed here:

> 1. Make sure you follow steps `1` and `2` [here](#setting-up-a-development-environment)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Make sure you follow steps `1` and `2` [here](#setting-up-a-development-environment).
```
Also, I'd rather this just said to install Python and poetry, instead of sending the reader far ahead in the guide and then making them come back. You can just copy those two steps verbatim.

> 2. [Install the `config-bootstrap` dependency group](../installing-project-dependencies#installing-specific-dependency-groups).

Reviewer 4: As of [bot#2458](https://github.com/python-discord/bot/pull/2458), this should be changed as there is no `config-bootstrap` group.

#### 2. Running the script

Once the script setup phase is complete, all that is left is to run it.

> To do this, you'll simply need to run the `configure` poetry task like this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do this, you'll simply need to run the `configure` poetry task:
```

```shell
$ poetry run task configure
```

or, without poetry and from the root directory

```shell
python3 -m botstrap

> ```

Reviewer 2: Assuming they followed the setup steps, they necessarily have poetry configured. I don't think offering an alternative here is useful. I'd rather keep things straightforward.

Author: Fair enough, I'll remove it

> Once the script has finished running, you'll notice the creation of a new file called [`.env.server`](#envserver) at your project's root directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the script has finished running, you'll notice the creation of a new file called [`.env.server`](#envserver) in your project's root directory.
```

Author: I think `at` indicates that it will be exactly in that position, whereas in will infer that it is contained within the root directory ( and its subfolders) and not necessarily at the top level position

> This file will contain the extracted ids from your newly created server which are necessary for your bot to run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This file will contain the extracted IDs from your newly created server which are necessary for your bot to run.
```
Same thing here, is it necessarily newly created?

Author: No, not necessarily.

It's just that if people have existing servers where channel names are not necessarily the same, it won't work as expected.
However, using the template guarantees that

Reviewer 2: Right, I just don't want people to think the script requires a new server every time. Since you added the note about existing servers I think the words "newly created" here and in my other comment can be removed anyway.

> **Congratulations**, you have finished the configuration & can now start [running your bot](#run-it)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Congratulations**, you have finished the configuration and can now [run your bot](#run-it).
```

#### Manual configuration
##### .env.server

> All server configuration values are saved in a file called `.env.server`, which needs to be at the root directory of the cloned code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: Skip this part if you used the automatic configuration.

All server configuration values are saved in a file called `.env.server`, which needs to be in the root directory of the cloned code.
```

This file contains the various configurations we use to make the bot run on the Python Discord server, such as channel and role IDs, and the emojis it works with.

> It also contains configurations such as how long it takes for a help channel to time out, and how many messages a user needs to voice-verify.

Reviewer 2: These two lines are unrelated to the configuration method, and some modified version of them can probably go after the first line under `### Configure the Bot`.

Author: How about:
```md
### Configure the Bot
The bot needs two configuration files to work: 
#### .env.server
Contains all server related configuration such as: channel IDs, role IDs, emojis, etc. But also things that define rules in the server like help channel timeout, number of messages a user needs to voice-verify, etc.
#### .env
Contains configuration related mostly to external services, like whether the bot should use metricity or not, redis password, etc.
```
 
When this is done, we will dump all the explanations further down the guide, WDYT ?

Reviewer 2: Wouldn't it make sense to explain what the files are *before* we tell people to create them?
Also regarding the wording for `.env.server` I think the wording in the lines I marked still works.

Author: It does make sense & that's what I'm suggesting as well. Sorry if that wasn't very clear.
To make this explicit, what I had in mind is explain that we will always need two config files for bot to work. We will state their names & their functions. (just like in the wording you highlighted). Then, in the manual & auto section, we will mention what needs to happen with one of them.  Meaning that for the auto section, .env.server will be created automatically, and .env needs to have X, Y and Z. And for the manual section, **both** will need to be made manually, and they need to have X, Y & Z

Reviewer 2: Aaah ok. I said we should move that part to the beginning, and you said everything before it should be moved below. I guess the result is the same 😄

Author: How does e207147d0d58af2ef6f75586f837ee3c96b8b7a4 look ?

Reviewer 2: Generally good, left a comment below 👍

If you decided to use the bootstrapping script, you'll find that this file has already been created (which we recommend),
otherwise you'll need to create it manually.

If you decide to set the configuration values manually, you will **only** need to set the values for the channels, roles, categories, etc.
that are used by the component you are developing.

> Let's take an example where we suppose we'll only be testing a feature that needs the `announcements` channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if we're testing a feature that only needs the `announcements` channel:
```

    announcements = 1079790565794779156
    changelog = 1077877318564991006

# Instantiate the class & load the configuration
Channels = _Channels()
```

`.env.server` file

```text
channels_announcements=1077875228002234398
```

When you launch your bot, `pydantic` will load up the server constants from the `.env.server` file if they exist.

Each constants class will define its own prefix, which will make `pydantic` look for variables that will look like `{{env_prefix}}{{attribute_name}}` in the environment files

In our example, this will imply that pydantic will look for both `channels_announcements` and `channels_changelog` in the `.env.server` file.

As you can see here, only `channels_announcements` has been defined in the `.env.server` file since it's the only one needed, which will tell `pydantic`
to use the value **1077875228002234398** for the `announcements` attribute instead of the default **1079790565794779156**, and use the default value for the `changelog` attribute

```python
>>> Channels.announcements
1077875228002234398
>>> Channels.changelong
1077877318564991006
```

See [here](../obtaining-discord-ids) for help with obtaining Discord IDs.

> <div class="card">

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we should have this part at all.

From the beginning of the page:
> This page will focus on the quickest steps one can take, with mentions of alternatives afterwards.

Setting things up manually isn't required anymore, so I think it's fine to skim over how to set things manually and then move on. This will also save us having to deal with this guide going out of date when we change a bit of configuration.

Author: @swfarnsworth and I discussed this before, I also had doubts about putting it here, but I also thought of people not being able to understand what's going on, especially new contribs.
If you have a strong opinion about removing it, I wouldn't mind doing it at all.

Also note that if people want to change some settings, they are required to do it in the `.env.server` file, so we might as well explain how it works, otherwise we'll end up with people making changes in the `constants.py` and pushing them over

Reviewer 2: Yes I'm in favor of still explaining how the .env.server is structured and how to modify specific constants, I just don't think the huge card is needed anymore.

I tried using the script yesterday, and it's very simple. In the planning stages I talked about needing a transition script from the old yaml config to the new one, but honestly it's much simpler to just run the script, even if it means starting a new server. I don't even want to suggest setting the entire .env.server file manually as a viable option.

Author: I agree with you here.

However, I wasn't talking about setting the entire env.server manually, but mostly about how would you go on about setting some variable if you ever need it.

To us it is very obvious because we discussed, planned, implemented and tested it, but idk how it would look like from the perspective of someone who has no clue about it.

Reviewer 2: No no, like I said I'm in favor of keeping it. I'm talking about the massive collapsible card.

Author: Ah ok, I understood something else completely.
I'll also add small explanation of nested objects in that case, which will cover the antispam & rules cases

Reviewer 2: You mean the parts I'm deleting in my PR? :P

Author: Ahahahaha, might not be worth adding after all :p

This file will be created for you automatically if you decide to go with [automatic configuration](#automatic-configuration),
otherwise a lot of it has to be done by hand which will be detailed in the [manual configuration](#manual-configuration) section.

**Notes**:

* Both `.env` and `.env.server` are and should remain ignored by git, otherwise you risk pushing sensitive information.
* Skip the following step if you would like to configure the bot manually, but that will require more work.

#### Automatic configuration
To make setup much easier, the script in `botstrap.py` bootstraps the configuration for you and helps you get started immediately,
without having to spend much time copying IDs from your server into your configuration file.

**Note**: The script will also work on existing servers as long as the channel names are the same as the one in Python Discord.

##### 1. Script setup
The bootstrapping script is a Python program so you will need a compatible Python version and the necessary dependencies installed,
which are all detailed here:

> 1. Make sure you have [Python 3.10](https://www.python.org/downloads/) installed. It helps if it is your system's default Python version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Make sure you have [Python 3.11](https://www.python.org/downloads/) installed. It helps if it is your system's default Python version.
```

2. [Install Poetry](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry#installation).
3. [Install the dependencies](../installing-project-dependencies).

##### 2. Running the script

Once the script setup phase is complete, all that is left is to run it.
To do this, you'll simply need to run the `configure` poetry task:

```shell
$ poetry run task configure
```

Once the script has finished running, you'll notice the creation of a new file called [`.env.server`](#envserver) at your project's root directory.
This file will contain the extracted IDs from your server which are necessary for your bot to run.

**Congratulations**, you have finished the configuration and can now [run your bot](#run-it).

#### Manual configuration

**Note**: Skip this part if you used the automatic configuration.

Reading this means that you're ready for a bit of manual labour.
If for some reason you've missed the automatic server setup section, you can read about it [here](#automatic-configuration)

> To configure the bot manually, you will **only** need to set the values for the channels, roles, categories, etc.
> that are used by the component you are developing inside the `.env.server` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure the bot manually, you will **only** need to set inside the `.env.server` file the values for the channels, roles, categories, etc.
that are used by the component you are developing.
```
Easier to read

---

### Configure the Bot
You now have both the bot's code and a server to run it on. It's time for you to connect the two by changing the bot's configurations.
This can be done either automatically or manually, and we'll be detailing the steps for both.

> One thing to know is that the bot relies on precisely **two** configuration files to work

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One thing to know is that the bot relies on precisely **two** configuration files to work.
```

Author: 4eedb972d4712082b9a2e381ea728a4fd59ed445

### Configure the Bot
You now have both the bot's code and a server to run it on. It's time you to connect the two by changing the bot's configurations.

#### Scaffolding the configuration
To make setup much easier, there is a file called `bootstrap_config.py` that represents a script to bootstrap the configuration for you and help you get started immediately
without having to spend much time copying ids from your newly created server into your configuration file.

**Note**

> This phase can be skipped and done manually, but would require extra manual work.

Reviewer 4: Looking at the static deploy this currently looks ugly. This would be much better.

```
**Note**: This phase can be skipped and done manually, but would require extra manual work.
```

##### 1. Script setup
##### 1.1. Environment variables
You will need to create a file called `.env` which will contain two required values for the script to work: `BOT_TOKEN` and `GUILD_ID`
Inside, add the following two lines:

```text
BOT_TOKEN=YourDiscordBotTokenHere
GUILD_ID=YourDiscordTestServerIdHere
```
See [here](../creating-bot-account) for help with obtaining the bot token and [here](obtaining-discord-ids.md#guild-id) for help with obtaining the guild's id

**Note**

> The `.env` file will be ignored by commits.

Reviewer 4: Same here, this will look better.

```
**Note**: The `.env` file will be ignored by commits.

    # Defines from where & how Pydantic will be looking for env variables
    ...

class _Channels(EnvConfig):

    EnvConfig.Config.env_prefix = "channels."

    announcements: int = Field(default=123)
    changelog: int = Field(default=456)

# Instantiate the class & load the configuration
Channels = _Channels()
```

`.env.server` file

```text
channels.announcements=789
```

When you launch your bot, `pydantic` will load up the server constants from the `.env.server` file if they exist.

Each constants class will define its own prefix, which will make `pydantic` look for variables that will look like `{{env_prefix}}{{attribute_name}}` in the environment files

In our example, this will imply that pydantic will look for both `channels.announcements` and `channels.changelog` in the `.env.server` file.

As you can see here, only `channels.announcements` has been defined in the `.env.server` file since it's the only one needed, which will tell `pydantic`
to use the value **789** for the `announcements` attribute instead of the default **456**, and use the default value for the `changelog` attribute

```python
>>> Channels.announcements
789
>>> Channels.changelong
456
```

> See [here](../obtaining-discord-ids) for help with obtaining Discord IDs.

Reviewer 4: I think this should be made a new section as this marks the beginning of the old manual method.

Author: The structure you see is not final, which 
Is why the PR is a draft, since it's not ready to be reviewed.

I only made it so I can see the changes I have made clearly.

Thanks for the suggestion though, i will definitely keep it in mind! :)

icons_user_unmute="https://cdn.discordapp.com/emojis/472472639206719508.png"
icons_user_update="https://cdn.discordapp.com/emojis/469952898684551168.png"
icons_user_verified="https://cdn.discordapp.com/emojis/470326274519334936.png"
icons_user_warn="https://cdn.discordapp.com/emojis/470326274238447633.png"

icons_voice_state_blue="https://cdn.discordapp.com/emojis/656899769662439456.png"
icons_voice_state_green="https://cdn.discordapp.com/emojis/656899770094452754.png"
icons_voice_state_red="https://cdn.discordapp.com/emojis/656899769905709076.png"

##### << Optional - If you don't care about the filtering, help channel and py-news cogs, ignore the rest of this file >> #####

# Filters configuration
filters_filter_domains=true
filters_filter_everyone_ping=true
filters_filter_invites=true
filters_filter_zalgo=false
filters_watch_regex=true
filters_watch_rich_embeds=true

### Notifications are not expected for "watchlist" type filters

filters_notify_user_domains=false
filters_notify_user_everyone_ping=true
filters_notify_user_invites=true
filters_notify_user_zalgo=false

filters_offensive_msg_delete_days=7
filters_ping_everyone=true

  </code>
  </pre>
</div></div></div>
<br>

> If you don't wish to use the provided `env.server` above, the main values that need overriding are **all** the ones prefixed with:

Reviewer 2: If you delete the huge card above, then:
```suggestion
If you wish to set all values in your `env.server` for your testing server, you need to set **all** the ones prefixed with:
```

* `guild_`
* `categories_`
* `channels_`
* `roles_`
* `webhooks_`
* `emojis_`

Additionally:

* At this stage, set `redis_use_fakeredis` to `true`. If you're looking for instructions for working with Redis, see [Working with Redis](#optional-working-with-redis).
* Set `urls_site_schema` and `urls_site_api_schema` to `"http://"`.

> We understand this is tedious which is why we **recommend** using the [automatic configuration setup](#automatic-configuration)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We understand this is tedious which is why we **heavily recommend** using the [automatic configuration setup](#automatic-configuration)
```

#### With the Bot Running Locally
The advantage of this method is that you can run the bot's code in your preferred editor, with debugger and all, while keeping all the setup of the bot's various dependencies inside Docker.

* Append the following line to your `.env` file: `API_KEYS_SITE_API=badbot13m0n8f570f942013fc818f234916ca531`.
* In your `.env.server` file, set `urls_site` to `"localhost:8000"` and `urls_site_api` to `"localhost:8000/api"`. If you wish to keep using `web:8000` and `web:8000/api`, then [COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME](../docker/#compose-project-names) has to be set.

> * To work with snekbox, set `urls_snekbox_eval_api` to `"http://localhost:8060/eval"` and `urls_snekbox_311_eval_api` to `"http://localhost:8065/eval"`

Reviewer 4: Mention here about configuring the trashcan emoji as most commands won't work without it.

Reviewer 4: I don't know if this is the most suitable place, if you find a better place add it there only.

Reviewer 2: Hmm we could set it automatically to 🗑️, although that's outside the scope of this guide.

Author: It's now added automatically when using `botstrap` [here](https://github.com/python-discord/bot/pull/2463)

    </button>
    <div class="collapsible-content collapsed">
        <div class="card-content">
            While it's technically possible to edit the values in <code>constants.py</code> to match your server, it is heavily discouraged.
            This file's purpose is to provide the configurations the Python bot needs to run in the Python server in production, and should remain as such.
            In contrast, the <code>.env.server</code> file can remain in your local copy of the code, and will be ignored by commits via the project's <code>.gitignore</code>.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
<br>

##### .env
The second file you need to create is the one containing the environment variables, and needs to be named `.env`.
Inside, add the line `BOT_TOKEN=YourDiscordBotTokenHere`. See [here](../creating-bot-account) for help with obtaining the bot token.

> **Note**: The `.env` is and should remain ignored by git, otherwise you risk pushing sensitive information.

Reviewer 2: This is common to both configuration options. I suggest just putting this part above them. If you configure manually then you don't need a guild ID in your env, but w/e.

Author: You do need a guild id in your env, since there's the `Guild` class that needs to pick it up.

Also, if you we go with the above suggestion about where we should place `.env` & `.env.server`, i'll mention it there

Reviewer 2: Unresolving since the comment is still relevant.

You have this part:
https://github.com/python-discord/site/blob/493ab3c7381ba89f640b7b53d2d0d96bf8944dbf/pydis_site/apps/content/resources/guides/pydis-guides/contributing/bot.md?plain=1#L69-L78

And then you have this part:
https://github.com/python-discord/site/blob/493ab3c7381ba89f640b7b53d2d0d96bf8944dbf/pydis_site/apps/content/resources/guides/pydis-guides/contributing/bot.md?plain=1#L194-L196

The second part is not up to date, the up-to-date version is the first part. Since this is relevant to both automatic and manual config, and it's the same information, it should just be combined, and appear above both sections, probably here:
https://github.com/python-discord/site/blob/493ab3c7381ba89f640b7b53d2d0d96bf8944dbf/pydis_site/apps/content/resources/guides/pydis-guides/contributing/bot.md?plain=1#L53-L55

I suggest having it before the `.env.server` explanation here:
https://github.com/python-discord/site/blob/493ab3c7381ba89f640b7b53d2d0d96bf8944dbf/pydis_site/apps/content/resources/guides/pydis-guides/contributing/bot.md?plain=1#L45

And then the `#### Automatic configuration` and `#### Manual configuration` will be under the `.env.server`, as they should. In that case those two `####` parts don't need their own `.env.server` sections under them, as they're entirely about the .env.server.

---

### Working with the help forum
If you will be working on a feature that includes the python help forum, you will need to use `Forum Channels`.

Forum channels cannot be included in a template, which is why this needs to be done by hand for the time being.

To activate forum channels, your Discord server needs to have the community feature.
If that's not the case already, here are the steps required to do it:
1. Go to server settings
2. Scroll down to the `COMMUNITY` section and click on `Enable Community`
3. Click on `Get Started` and fill out the necessary info

Once the previous steps are done, all that is left is to:
1. Create a new channel
2. Choose the `Forum` type
3. [Copy its ID](../obtaining-discord-ids#channel-id)

> 4. Add the following line to the `.env.server` file: `channels_python_help={newly_created_forum_channel_id}`

Reviewer 2: This should be under `### Run it!` and prefixed with `Optional:` like the redis section. It can probably go directly above that section.

Author: True, true.

</div>
<br>

In your `.env.server` file:

> * Set `urls_site` to `"web:8000"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Set `urls_site` to `"web:8000/api"`.
```

Reviewer 4: Wouldn't this be `urls_site_api`?

Author: It's actually `urls_site` in the previous config scheme & that's because we defined a variable called 
`site` which takes that value, and then we use it to automatically compose the site_api & a bunche of other stuff
But yes, it's not the case anymore & should change

**UPDATE**
Actually, it should be kept & provided with site_api as well, since both are needed (One to talk to db and one to compose the paste service url )

Reviewer 2: This will need to be mentioned in the local run section as well

The advantage of this method is that you can run the bot's code in your preferred editor, with debugger and all, while keeping all the setup of the bot's various dependencies inside Docker.

* Append the following line to your `.env` file: `API_KEYS_SITE_API=badbot13m0n8f570f942013fc818f234916ca531`.

> * In your `.env.server` file, set `urls_site` to `"web:8000"` and `urls_site_api` to `"localhost:8000/api"`. If you wish to keep using `web:8000/api` and `web:8000/api`, then [COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME](../docker/#compose-project-names) has to be set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In your `.env.server` file, set `urls_site` to `"localhost:8000"` and `urls_site_api` to `"localhost:8000/api"`. If you wish to keep using `web:8000` and `web:8000/api`, then [COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME](../docker/#compose-project-names) has to be set.
```

Author: Caught red handed👀

Reviewer 2: You haven't addressed the full suggestion, you mention web:8000/api twice.

Author: Clumsy me is a classic, sorry for that ...
Should be fixed now :D

#### With the Bot Running Locally
The advantage of this method is that you can run the bot's code in your preferred editor, with debugger and all, while keeping all the setup of the bot's various dependencies inside Docker.

* Append the following line to your `.env` file: `API_KEYS_SITE_API=badbot13m0n8f570f942013fc818f234916ca531`.

> * In your `.env.server` file, set `urls_site` to `"localhost:8000"`. If you wish to keep using `web:8000`, then [COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME](../docker/#compose-project-names) has to be set.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* In your `.env.server` file, set `urls_site_api` to `"localhost:8000/api"`. If you wish to keep using `web:8000`, then [COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME](../docker/#compose-project-names) has to be set.
```

> * In your `.env.server` file, set `urls_site_api` to `"localhost:8000/api"`. If you wish to keep using `web:8000`, then [COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME](../docker/#compose-project-names) has to be set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In your `.env.server` file, set `urls_site_api` to `"localhost:8000/api"`. If you wish to keep using `web:8000/api`, then [COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME](../docker/#compose-project-names) has to be set.
```
